So for this course, we will primally work in this shell, to see all the commands and the different ways
of using these commands because the shell is a great neutral ground for working with mongodb
because I don't know if you're building a php, a node, a C++, a python or whatever application
and I want to teach you something which you can apply to all use cases and that is the case with the
shell but of course in the end, you will build an application with a programming language where this
app should then issue these commands against the mongodb server. And for that, you can click
on docs on the official page and then on the doc page, click on mongodb drivers because these
drivers are packages you installed for the different programming languages your app might be written in,
as you see you got drivers for all kinds of languages and these drivers are then your bridges between
your programming language and the mongodb server
and as it turns out, in these drivers, you use the same commands as I use in the shell, just adjusted to the
syntax of the language you are working with of course.
So for example, if we have a look at the nodejs driver and the python driver, let's see how we would
work with those. On the nodejs driver documentation, if we click on latest documentation,
we can quickly have a look at the quick start guide to see how our code would look like, if we use that, you
see how to start your mongodb database and so on
and what you will see there is that here, you also in the end just reach out to a database,
then instead of typing the collection name, you have a collection method to get access but you would
look into the official docs
of course when using the driver, so these are tiny differences which you quickly find out there
but then on the collection, you again run insertMany, we haven't seen that yet,
we'll see it in the course, this exists in the shell in exactly the same way and you insert data in exactly
the same way.
So these, the core features are exactly equal,
let's also have a look at python to prove that. Here I'm on the python driver page,
now let me quickly dive into the tutorial,
so that we see some code for that.
So here, you see for python, you would install a package called py mongo which is the official driver
for python,
you then connect and so on
and again, you in the end just get access to a database, then to a collection, here again by just using
that collection name
and then you simply insert one now using python syntax where you happen to write methods like this with
an underscore and this snake case but then you insert one post which is just such an object,
python map in the end.
So you see, the syntax of the languages obviously differs because well, they are different languages
but the general way of working with your data does not change at all,
you work in exactly the same way as in the shell
and actually, this is something we'll build later in the course. This is a complete node application using
mongodb and here,
you also see some code in action where I insert a new product
and this is something we'll build in the course so that I can teach you how to move from the shell
to the drivers
but I hope this makes clear why we work with the shell,
it's the neutral ground on which we all can agree so that you can take that knowledge on how to insert,
how to configure your inserts, how to query data, how to filter data, how to sort data, so that you can
use that knowledge with any driver you want and you are really flexible regarding what you built.